In this video I'll explain some of the fundamentals of the NSX logical switch and how it can enhance
traffic optimization compared to vse for a distributed switch or a fair standard switch.
So what is a logical switch.
Well we've had a Vee's for distributed switching of VSE for standard switch that are part of the sphere.
This is a new type of virtual switch.
And the logical switch is as kind of the next step in the phrase and the logical switch is really the
next step in the evolution from standard to distributed.
And now from distributed to our NSX logical switch and what is really going to do is add functionality
on top of a distributed virtual switch with NSX.
We're still going to need the distributed virtual switch.
We're not going to completely abandon that.
Now the logical switch is based on a kernel module.
What it is is a distributed switch.
With this additional capability called VX LAN it's based on the Vee's for distributed switch.
It's backed by Vee's for a distributed switch and it's going to use the physical adapters associated
with the VSE for a distributed switch
are logical switches will not use violence so prior to creating a logical switch you'll establish a
pool of what are called VX LAN network identifiers or V.N. eyes and our villainize are going to start
at 5000.
That way they're easy to distinguish from villans and each VNA serves as a logical identifier for a
logical switch.
Now one of the components that we're going to require for this VX Slan encapsulation is something called
the V-Tech tap has a special VM kernel port specifically for VX LAN functions and it provides VX same
encapsulation and de-caf solution.
And we can create a logical switch that will even span multiple distributed switches and in a couple
slides will start taking a look at some diagrams and a lot of this will probably become a lot more clear
as we work through a few of the pictures.
So really quickly before we get to our pictures let's talk about VX land a little bit now VX Slan is
going to give you a tunnelled transport across the physical network and this provides certain benefits.
The most significant of which is that you can create a layer to network that spans a layer 3 device.
You can also provide logical segmentation using Vienna is similar to the way we create logical segmentation
with villans OK.
So let's take a look at a diagram and hopefully that will make these concepts a lot more clear.
So in this diagram what we see at the top of our screen a distributed portrait and maybe that distributed
port group is configured for some the land and that land has virtual machines on it with the address
range of 1 9 2 1 6 8 1 0.
So let's say that in this case this is veel and that and now I've got multiple virtual machines running
on different ESX I hosts each one of those green blocks represents an ESX I host so you get VM one VM
to VM three and VM for that are all connected to the same distributed switch and then on the bottom
we've got our actual physical network that's used to interconnect these ESX hosts so we have four ESX
hosts two of them are connected by a switch and then there's a router in the middle and the other two
hosts are connected by a different physical switch.
Ok so now let's talk about what happens when we issue in our request in this scenario.
So like I mentioned VM one VM to VM 3 and VM four are all connected to port groups and is Vee's for
a distributed switch.
And let's say that VM one wants to ping VM for what will happen in that situation is a VM one will issue
and ARP request if it doesn't know the MAC address of VM for a VM one tries to ping this IP 1 9 2 1
6 8 that one dot 13 but it doesn't know the destination MAC address.
It'll create a layer to broadcast call then our request.
So here comes my ARP request from VM one right and it hits the physical switch and the destination MAC
address is all AFP's.
Right that's my broadcast MAC address.
And so what the physical switches going to do as it's going to receive that broadcast and it will flood
it out all ports on that either that switch.
Right.
So here's my request will eventually hit virtual machine to but we're not looking for the MAC address
of $192 168 not one dot 11.
So this virtual machine will essentially ignore that ARP request and the physical switch will also flood
the broadcast frame out it's interface that's connected to our router here and what does a router do
with a lever to broadcast.
Don't pass lead to broadcasts.
So that's the end of my ARP request and the our request never makes it to VM for therefore V.M. one
is unable to discover the IP addresses of anything connected to this distributed switch.
On the other side of that router and that's why these for distributed switch requires Leor to transport
a VSE for a distributed switch.
Can't do this.
It can't span multiple hosts that are separated by a router.
Doesn't work right.
Now let's look at the same diagram but let's replace the distributed port group with a logical switch.
So again VM one VM to VM 3 and VM for all in the same network are 1 9 2 1 6 8 1 10 11 12 and 13.
That's the network that these VAMC are connected to.
So welders notate that network here find the logic switch and he's added the network and let's say in
this scenario VM one wants to ping VM for.
But again VM one doesn't know the destination MAC really knows the IP address and wants to hit but it
does not know the destination MAC address.
So in order to discover that destination MAC address VM one is going to issue a broadcast and ARP request
and that ARP request is going to hit this V-Tech and the VTEC now has the capability of saying here's
a letter to broadcast.
Right.
This is a letter to broadcast that needs to be received by everything connected to this logical switch.
So what the tap will do is it'll encapsulate that broadcast and it will send a copy of it to the tap
which is just a VM kernel port that runs on each and every ESX I host.
That's part of this logical switch.
And I know they're not pictured here but this whole still have a VM kernel part that's VTEC.
And this this hosta all VM kernel port that's acting as if he tap and our host on the far right as a
VM kernel port that X has a V.
So it's the job of the source.
V-Tech over here on the far left.
It's the job of the source.
V-Tech to now receive that Lehre to broadcast and it'll take it.
It will wrap it up with a new set of outer headers or new source and destination IP new source in this
nation.
Mac right.
It will create a new set of headers and put them on the front of that frank the original frame and all
of the original addressing still stays intact in the original frame is still there.
The tap is simply putting an additional set of headers on the outside of the frame.
All of our outer Hetter and the purpose of those headers is to essentially this tab is going to ship
a copy of that broadcast to this V-Tech and when it hits this time it'll hit these VM and the VM does
not match our request.
And here comes that Lehre to broadcast in the form of an IP unicast bound for this V tap over here.
So in this case our router is going to see IP unicast traffic destined for $172 60 not 10 that 10.
This is not Alair to broadcast as far as the router can tell.
It will pass that packet out the appropriate pour on the router towards the physical switch.
And it will arrive at the to and the tap will strip away those outer headers exposing the original frame
again with the original source and destination IP and Mac which was our up broadcast frame and that
broadcast frame will arrive at V.M. 4 and V.M. 4 can then generate in our response.
So that's how the logical switch is really very different than a distributed switch because the logical
switch doesn't care about the underlying physical network.
We can put as many routers in the middle as we want and we can still maintain one layer to segment across
all of these ESX hosts even though they're separated by a router.
So in review our logical switches are mapped to Vienna instead of villans they're going to use a VX
LAN network identifier.
Now one thing I didn't mention is that the maximum transmission unit on our physical network is sixteen
hundred minimum.
Let's back up to that last slide and let me explain why OK.
So let's say again virtual machine one generates and ARP request.
When that our request arrives at the tap one of the thing that's going to happen is the original frame.
Let's call this the original frame with the original headers is going to get encapsulated with a new
set of headers.
Right.
That's the job of the VTEC is essentially to say here's a new destination IP address and the new destination
IP addresses the IP address of the tap over here.
So it's going to append a new set of headers on the front of that frame.
All right.
And maybe that frame had a frame size that was like 15:24 or something like that a pretty standard Ethan
frame size.
Well one of these additional headers are put on top of that the size of the frame increases.
And if the physical switch isn't properly configured to handle a frame that large it'll have to break
it up into multiple pieces and do what's called fragmentation and reassembly.
Right and if you're not really familiar with that concept go back and watch the MTV Video towards the
beginning of this course.
So that's why we have to have a higher MT you the physical network because we're creating additional
headers with VX land that are going to increase the size of a frame and we don't want the frame to be
larger than the empty view of the physical network.
So the minimum required.
MT You on the physical network is going to be 6500 that's on the underlying network or the NSX implementation
of VX LAN uses UDP port 84 72.
That's different than the standard VX LAN port used by other vendors.
And finally we have this concept the transport zones and we're going to talk more about this in upcoming
lessons.
But I do just want to take a moment to introduce the concept of a transport zone at this point a transport
zone identifies the scope of the logical switch will create transport zones that include multiple clusters
of hosts.
And when you create a logical switch you actually created something called the transport zone and the
logical switch will span all of the hosts and clusters identified in that transport so so much more
on that later.
But I just wanted to introduce that term at this point.